[SPEAKER_02]: Tonight, January 29th, 2006, we speak with Rick Sanchez, Vice President of Content for GameTap, his World of Warcraft against gay and lesbian guilds, and we give you a complete wrap-up of Konami Gamers Day.
[SPEAKER_02]: Welcome, everybody, to another week here on Orange Lounge Radio.
[SPEAKER_02]: It is Sunday, January 29th, and you're listening to Orange Lounge Radio.
[SPEAKER_02]: Or maybe if you're listening to this the podcast way, it's any day you want, because the podcast thing lets you do that.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, we are here to talk about video games and all the news you really want to know about.
[SPEAKER_02]: My name is Rob Roberts.
[SPEAKER_02]: You might know me as Sky.
[SPEAKER_02]: Joining me, as always, say hello to DarkSakura, Jamie Summers.
[SPEAKER_02]: With off-microphone.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's alright.
[SPEAKER_06]: Dang it, this has just been, like, crap week, so... That's alright.
[SPEAKER_06]: Forgive me for being a little flustered.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's alright.
[SPEAKER_02]: How you doing, besides crap and flustered?
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm in pain.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: Because I worked out.
[SPEAKER_06]: I did not play a game that worked out yesterday like a good girl.
[SPEAKER_06]: I went to the gym, but I was gaming all the rest of the week.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright, well, we'll get to gaming in just a minute, but it would be rude of me not to introduce the one and only Loki!
[SPEAKER_02]: Hi.
[SPEAKER_02]: Hi, Loki, how you doing?
[SPEAKER_03]: Frustrated I couldn't get on a motorcycle for some reason.
[SPEAKER_03]: They were too fast for my character in Grand Theft Auto Liberty City.
[SPEAKER_02]: At first I was like, you ride motorcycles?
[SPEAKER_02]: Do you have a class A license?
[SPEAKER_03]: No, no.
[SPEAKER_03]: Because I think I put the aggressive driver's code in before I got a motorcycle and so it made it a little bit tougher to get one.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, well, sorry to hear it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Also joining us, since once in a while we like to invite a special guest on to fill out our fourth chair here in the studio, say hello to Miklatov, who was just here two weeks ago.
[SPEAKER_02]: Two weeks ago, yes.
[SPEAKER_02]: But he's back.
[SPEAKER_02]: Hello.
[SPEAKER_02]: How you doing?
[SPEAKER_01]: Fine.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah?
[SPEAKER_02]: Yep.
[SPEAKER_02]: Mikhail Tov, for those that don't know, works for Konami, but his role is top secret, so we don't really talk about Konami.
[SPEAKER_02]: Actually, we have a lot of Konami to talk about tonight.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah, it makes me sad, too.
[SPEAKER_02]: You'll just have to roll your eyes at the whole thing, I guess, or turn your back.
[SPEAKER_02]: I just said I didn't get to go.
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll talk about that a little later.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's hour two.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, hour two, okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, welcome, everybody, and I hope you enjoyed the show last week.
[SPEAKER_02]: You got a lot of good feedback and stuff.
[SPEAKER_02]: World of Warcraft
[SPEAKER_02]: How's the world of Warcraft going for you?
[SPEAKER_01]: It's actually going good.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's kind of fun, having a good time.
[SPEAKER_01]: I like that I don't have to party, but I also hate that I don't have to party.
[SPEAKER_01]: And beyond that, I got giddy this week when they announced that Pirate...
[SPEAKER_01]: or Corsair was a job class now in Final Fantasy XI.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh yeah, I heard about this in the expansion pack that they're going to be doing.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's Blue Mage and Corsair and then we don't know what else yet.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, but a Corsair is pretty much a pirate, right?
[SPEAKER_02]: With Gambler also mixed in.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, so let me get this right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Final Fantasy XI has a job class for ninja, and now they have a job class for pirate.
[SPEAKER_02]: So now you're going to have ninja versus pirates.
[SPEAKER_01]: Or ninja slash pirates, or pirate slash ninjas.
[SPEAKER_02]: Doesn't that throw off the balance of the universe, though, to have ninja and then pirate as your sub-job?
[SPEAKER_01]: Or pirate and then ninja as your sub-job?
[SPEAKER_02]: That's wrong.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's like a conflict of interest.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, because they get along.
[SPEAKER_01]: Everybody knows they really get along.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's like, what's those hicks that fought all the time?
[SPEAKER_01]: The Hatfields and McCoys.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, those people.
[SPEAKER_01]: They probably really got along.
[SPEAKER_01]: Just like Pirates and Ninjas.
[SPEAKER_01]: But if they did have a fight, Pirates would win.
[SPEAKER_02]: So now, for those that don't know Miklatov, which I imagine most people don't, you are infatuated with the color blue.
[SPEAKER_02]: You love blue.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, I do.
[SPEAKER_02]: But you're not going to play a blue mage.
[SPEAKER_01]: Nope, I'm going to play a Corsair because it's a pirate.
[SPEAKER_02]: That makes no sense.
[SPEAKER_02]: So pirates outrank blue things for you.
[SPEAKER_01]: In this game, yes.
[SPEAKER_01]: For some reason, they gave a blue mage really crappy armor.
[SPEAKER_01]: It looks really stupid.
[SPEAKER_01]: But a pirate looks like a pirate, and that's all that matters.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm sure I can get blue pirate armor.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll be happy.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, I really don't know how to follow that up.
[SPEAKER_01]: So anything else you want to share?
[SPEAKER_01]: Played more Mario Kart.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm up to... How many wins do you have there?
[SPEAKER_01]: Like 1,500?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, 1,500 something.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're sad.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think some of our chatters are trying to get a game of Mario Kart DS going on right now.
[SPEAKER_02]: Live on Sunday.
[SPEAKER_01]: They're cool, except they're playing online, so it sucks.
[SPEAKER_02]: OrangeLoungeRadio.com.
[SPEAKER_02]: Click on chat if you want to join in the fun.
[SPEAKER_01]: Why does online suck?
[SPEAKER_01]: Because you can only have four people.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then whoever doesn't get first place always drops out for the next race.
[SPEAKER_01]: So...
[SPEAKER_01]: Call of Duty 2, Animal Crossing DS
[SPEAKER_03]: How's life in Animal Crossing?
[SPEAKER_03]: I'm about to pay off.
[SPEAKER_03]: I'm not even sure what mortgage it is.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's basically the second room in the house.
[SPEAKER_03]: So I have one extra room.
[SPEAKER_03]: Now I'm going to get a second extra room.
[SPEAKER_03]: And then there's one more extra room and then I'm done.
[SPEAKER_00]: Awesome.
[SPEAKER_03]: So I have like a hundred and some thousand dollars worth of
[SPEAKER_03]: And when they try to run up to talk to me, I run away I just out them, and then that usually does it
[SPEAKER_03]: You know, I accuse them of having, you know, gay orgies and stuff like that.
[SPEAKER_03]: And usually they get embarrassed and move away.
[SPEAKER_03]: Alright.
[SPEAKER_03]: Anything else you want to share about your gaming week?
[SPEAKER_03]: Um, no.
[SPEAKER_03]: No, that's pretty much it.
[SPEAKER_03]: I didn't play much else.
[SPEAKER_03]: Alright.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'll go next then.
[SPEAKER_02]: My gaming week actually wasn't that exciting.
[SPEAKER_02]: I did play a little bit of World of Warcraft.
[SPEAKER_02]: I played Silent Hill 4 at the request of Miklatov earlier today.
[SPEAKER_01]: For five minutes.
[SPEAKER_02]: For like five minutes.
[SPEAKER_02]: I made pretty good progress for 15 minutes of playing.
[SPEAKER_02]: DarkSakura, how was your gaming week?
[SPEAKER_02]: I got a Game Boy Micro this week.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, with the itty-bitty, itty-bitty ones.
[SPEAKER_02]: What's your faceplate look like?
[SPEAKER_02]: It's the plain black one.
[SPEAKER_06]: It's dark like my soul.
[SPEAKER_02]: How boring.
[SPEAKER_06]: No, I like it.
[SPEAKER_06]: I'm not going to complain because it's free.
[SPEAKER_05]: I'm not going to say how I obtained it either.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, really?
[SPEAKER_06]: Through nefarious means.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know, packed with the dark powers.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, you're kind of scaring me here a little bit.
[SPEAKER_06]: And we got a free copy of Pokemon Emerald with it too.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, that's cool.
[SPEAKER_06]: But I took it out from promptly and put in YY Racing.
[SPEAKER_02]: Can you actually read text on those little things?
[SPEAKER_06]: Yes, I played the hell out of Space Harrier on that thing.
[SPEAKER_02]: Really?
[SPEAKER_06]: Yep, because I loves me some Space Harrier.
[SPEAKER_02]: I have really yet to really sit down with a micro.
[SPEAKER_02]: I saw it at E3 and that was about it.
[SPEAKER_06]: I'll let you play it during the break.
[SPEAKER_06]: Cool.
[SPEAKER_03]: My opinion of it has not changed one bit.
[SPEAKER_03]: When I remember looking at it at E3, I'm like, wow, this is the most useless thing I've ever seen.
[SPEAKER_05]: It's actually pretty cool.
[SPEAKER_05]: And I like it because I can just carry it with me wherever because it's little and it will fit in my pocket.
[SPEAKER_02]: Because it's a fashion accessory?
[SPEAKER_02]: Like something Paris Hilton would have hanging from her purse?
[SPEAKER_02]: No, because Paris Hilton... Like you have hanging from your cell phone?
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, no.
[SPEAKER_06]: Because Paris Hilton is a stupid whore.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
Look.
[SPEAKER_02]: Correction.
[SPEAKER_02]: Stupid spoiled whore.
[SPEAKER_05]: Oh, that is kind of cute.
[SPEAKER_02]: It is so cute.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, look at that.
[SPEAKER_05]: Black and silver.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's in the palm of my hand.
[SPEAKER_02]: This news is like so six months old, these micros.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm seeing one for the first time.
[SPEAKER_02]: That is kind of cute, up close.
[SPEAKER_05]: I forgot what I put in there.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let me see.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, they have feet on the bottom here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yep.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's see what game Jamie has in her Game Boy Micro.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's see.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, you have Guardian Heroes Advance.
[SPEAKER_05]: Good game.
[SPEAKER_02]: Good choice.
[SPEAKER_05]: I have good taste in games.
[SPEAKER_05]: I'm going to play a lot of Animal Crossing, too.
[SPEAKER_05]: I'm about 200 bells from paying off my fourth loan.
[SPEAKER_06]: And I'll get my fifth loan paid off.
[SPEAKER_06]: I'm doing it to where I'm paying off $100,000 a week because I want to pace myself.
[SPEAKER_02]: So the game's still entertaining for both of you guys?
[SPEAKER_02]: Because I'm a little bored with Animal Crossing.
[SPEAKER_01]: I got rid of it within a week of having it.
[SPEAKER_02]: I visit other people's towns once in a while to order things from my catalog for them, but that's about it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Which reminds me, I have to get you a pinball machine.
[SPEAKER_05]: Wow, I'm a Capcom fan tonight.
[SPEAKER_02]: Why?
[SPEAKER_06]: You're pulling more Game Boy games out of the... Super Street Fighter 2 and Puzzle Fighter.
[SPEAKER_02]: I didn't even know they made Puzzle Fighter for Game Boy Advance.
[SPEAKER_06]: See?
[SPEAKER_06]: What a cool... And then I'm going to get my DS fight.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's see.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's about it, I guess, for Gaming Week then.
[SPEAKER_02]: If nobody else has anything additional they want to add?
[SPEAKER_02]: Um...
[SPEAKER_02]: No, not really.
[SPEAKER_02]: Is it just me or is tonight a little bit of an off night?
[SPEAKER_02]: I think we all feel like a little bit.
[SPEAKER_02]: I was very, very sick yesterday.
[SPEAKER_02]: I got really, really sick last night.
[SPEAKER_02]: And I'll get into that when I get into the FUs of the week.
[SPEAKER_02]: But that's the reason I'm off.
[SPEAKER_02]: I know Jamie's off a little bit.
[SPEAKER_02]: She talked about that earlier in the show.
[SPEAKER_05]: I told someone off today.
[SPEAKER_02]: Why?
[SPEAKER_02]: What did they do?
[SPEAKER_05]: Rude woman.
[SPEAKER_02]: For being a woman?
[SPEAKER_02]: Is that why you told her off?
[SPEAKER_05]: I was hanging out with Tia today.
[SPEAKER_05]: And this woman shoved Tia.
[SPEAKER_06]: And I was like, you can say excuse me.
[SPEAKER_06]: She's all like, I did, very softly.
[SPEAKER_06]: I'm like, well next time say it where people can hear you.
[SPEAKER_06]: And then she got behind us in line and said, some people need to clean out their ears.
[SPEAKER_06]: I said, some people need to learn how to speak up.
[SPEAKER_06]: Where was this at?
[SPEAKER_06]: Barnes & Noble.
[SPEAKER_06]: Oh.
[SPEAKER_06]: We were buying tarot cards.
[SPEAKER_02]: Were you trying to start a fight in the middle of Barnes & Noble?
[SPEAKER_06]: No, but she shoved to you.
[SPEAKER_03]: She was just using her library voice.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yes, she was using her library voice.
[SPEAKER_06]: Dude, she was right behind us and I could not hear her and I have good hearing.
[SPEAKER_02]: Wait, I'm going to put that theory to the test.
[SPEAKER_02]: Hold on.
[SPEAKER_05]: Jamie sucks.
[SPEAKER_05]: I know you do.
[SPEAKER_02]: Moving on.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's get into some actual news, shall we?
[SPEAKER_02]: Loki, while I beat up Jamie, could you tell us a little bit about what's going on with the Nintendo DS?
[SPEAKER_02]: You wish you could.
[SPEAKER_02]: I ain't going to use my library voice when I do it either.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, so the DS, it was, yes, we're redesigning it, then no, we're redesigning it, and now...
[SPEAKER_03]: It was basically, we have nothing to announce today, but tomorrow, that's a whole different story.
[SPEAKER_03]: So, yeah, they basically announced a few days later after the whole, you know, conspiracy theory that they were going to announce a redesign.
[SPEAKER_03]: Because I love how they have to be right and, you know, at all times.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's like, yes, we have nothing to, just like I said last week, we have nothing to, you know, say at this time, but, you know.
[SPEAKER_03]: So anyways, they announced the DS Lite.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's a lot thinner, a lot smaller, and it's white.
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_03]: And you'll buy it, because you're a consumer whore.
[SPEAKER_05]: And how?
[SPEAKER_03]: Actually, they're talking about the original DS being marked down a couple bucks, and this one's probably going to be about $120, so...
[SPEAKER_03]: It's supposed to be released in March for Japan.
[SPEAKER_03]: No word on the US, but of course I'm sure it's going to hit us at some point in multiple colors and all that wonderful stuff.
[SPEAKER_02]: How long before Jamie buys one?
[SPEAKER_02]: Because she bought a micro, or acquired one somehow.
[SPEAKER_02]: So she's got to get a light to match it, right?
[SPEAKER_02]: Are they going to put out the light in soulless black for DarkSakura?
[SPEAKER_02]: Possibly.
[SPEAKER_03]: and also as a brighter screen, so.
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, really?
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_06]: So I can use it to light the hallway in my darkened house.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright, so wait, then this thing will still play advanced games, right?
[SPEAKER_02]: Not just DS, but advanced?
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're not losing any of that?
[SPEAKER_02]: No, you're not losing anything.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's just a little bit thinner.
[SPEAKER_02]: And a white stylus to match the white virtual pure DS.
[SPEAKER_02]: White stylus.
[SPEAKER_03]: One of the things they said that possibly will come with it is an actual card that will go into the Game Boy Advance slot so that, you know,
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura, Drew, Carameldansen
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura, DarkSakura
[SPEAKER_03]: They have to sell another one to every Japanese person now, so the only way to do that?
[SPEAKER_03]: What, make them smaller?
[SPEAKER_06]: We had the Game Boy, then the Game Boy Pocket, then the Game Boy Pocket Color, then the Game Boy SP, then the Virtual Boy, which we all forget about, then we had the Game Boy DS, and we had the Game Boy Advance, and then we had those like me who had lights installed in it.
[SPEAKER_03]: Also, the other reason why they have it white is to also set
[SPEAKER_03]: Some more conspiracy theories on how Nintendo and Apple would be working together.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh yeah, that's a lot of feedback I've been reading is that they're trying to make DS's look like iPods.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm not touching that one.
[SPEAKER_02]: I know.
[SPEAKER_02]: There's so many things.
[SPEAKER_02]: You've gotten enough hate mail in the past couple weeks.
[SPEAKER_03]: I only got one letter actually.
[SPEAKER_03]: Whatever.
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: So does anybody in here think they'll buy one?
[SPEAKER_01]: I will.
[SPEAKER_01]: Why?
[SPEAKER_01]: Because I'm a Nintendo fanboy, and I buy at least one version of every system they come out with.
[SPEAKER_01]: When the SP came out, I bought a blue one, and when they had the red one come out, I also bought the red one.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's right, I forgot about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's sad.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, and when we were at the store the other day, I almost bought that Mario Kart DS, or the DS bundle, because it was the red DS.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't have a red DS yet.
[SPEAKER_01]: So, I'll buy one.
[SPEAKER_01]: Are you going to buy a white DS and make it back when a blue one comes out?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, they said that there's going to be a few colors for the Japanese launch.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll wait to see if there's something beyond white.
[SPEAKER_01]: If there's a blue one, I will get a blue one.
[SPEAKER_01]: If there's a white one, I guess I'll just get the white one if any other crappy colors come out, like yellow or something.
[SPEAKER_03]: It all depends when they come out and what the price set.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, I'm probably not going to go trade in my DS for a new DS because that would just be retarded, but
[SPEAKER_06]: On top of that, isn't your Animal Crossing Village dependent on your game?
[SPEAKER_06]: On your system?
[SPEAKER_06]: Your friend code is.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, friend code, yeah, but I don't think so.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah, I'm not sure how that would screw it all up if you try to take your... Because it does say something about the cartridge is linked to the system.
[SPEAKER_02]: Eh, who cares.
[SPEAKER_06]: I honestly... I think I'll get one, but that's just for the convenience of it being smaller and not having enough room in my purse.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I like the extra backlighting features.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's kind of cool.
[SPEAKER_01]: Not that the games are dark right now, but they could pull another Castlevania like they did on Advance and just make it impossible to see.
[SPEAKER_02]: GameTap
[SPEAKER_02]: GameTap is the program that you can use to download and play classic games such as Atari 2600 and Sega Master System games or games of more recent memory such as games in the Tomb Raider series and Prince of Persia Sands of Time.
[SPEAKER_02]: When we reviewed the product, we had a lot of questions about the potential of this product.
[SPEAKER_02]: Rick Sanchez, Vice President of Content for GameTap
[SPEAKER_02]: Happy to be here.
[SPEAKER_02]: GameTap, why was GameTap started?
[SPEAKER_00]: A whole bunch of reasons.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think the most important reason is that there was a guy here at Turner Broadcasting and his name is Blake Lewin who just absolutely loves video games.
[SPEAKER_00]: At the core of GameTap, while there's a lot of business reasons to go ahead and create it, is sort of this foundation for just a real passion for games and old games, new games, all games and a belief that
[SPEAKER_00]: A good game made a year ago, five years ago, or 20 years ago is still a good game today, and it's a shame that more people can't experience a wider variety of games.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that was sort of the impetus for GameTap on a personal level for Blake.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then for Turner, the idea of GameTap presented a really unique opportunity and sort of an interesting foray into a broadband product, which was there's lots of things to do with broadband out there, but to date,
[SPEAKER_00]: No one had really gone out and just sat down and said, I'm going to make a product specifically for broadband, something that's designed to cater to a broadband audience that fills broadband users' needs and takes advantage of these wetter pipes in a sort of unique and interesting way.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that was the Turner impetus for GameTap.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then there was sort of just a nice game industry coincidence that is, once you release a game, you've only got one shot to put it out there, and that's it.
[SPEAKER_00]: if it doesn't pick up in sales like in the first few weeks it's taken off shelves and no one may ever find that game again except in a bargain bin later unlike movies where movies hit the theaters and then they hit airplanes and hotels and then they hit DVD and then they hit pay cable then they hit basic cable then they hit network TV so they've got this really wonderful sort of long tail approach to all these different opportunities for people to experience the content and of course for the people who create the content to
[SPEAKER_02]: That's very true, and a lot of games I notice on GameTap are, in some cases, so old and so classic that a lot of the teenagers and even 20-somethings probably never even played these games before, so I totally can see where you're coming from.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's like a whole new life for the games.
[SPEAKER_02]: Exactly.
[SPEAKER_00]: And, you know, not just the old ones, but there's two titles we have, really, that have just really done phenomenally for us.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them is, they're both Ubisoft titles, incidentally.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them is Beyond Good and Evil, and the other is Prince of Persia Sands of Time.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, I checked out Sands of Time.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, they're both phenomenal games, but neither one of them really sold all that well for a variety of reasons.
[SPEAKER_00]: You know, when Beyond Good and Evil came out, it came out during a holiday season packed with a lot of other franchise games.
[SPEAKER_00]: and it was sort of a unique new game, sort of different.
[SPEAKER_00]: I didn't immediately find an audience, but on GameTap it's consistently a game that people keep discovering and playing more and more all the time, despite the fact that it didn't really sell that well.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then Sands of Time is another really fantastic game, really well-reviewed when it came out, but it shipped a little late in the holiday season.
[SPEAKER_00]: It came out when there was a ton of other games in the market
[SPEAKER_00]: and so I didn't find an audience for that, you know, that first sort of new revamp of the Ubisoft, of the Prince of Persia franchise.
[SPEAKER_00]: But on GameTap, you know, it's doing GameBusters.
[SPEAKER_02]: I totally agree because I never checked out Sands of Time when it first came out just because there was so much.
[SPEAKER_02]: I remember what you said, when it came out it was a very busy holiday season.
[SPEAKER_02]: I never checked it out and I finally got a chance to play it through GameTap myself a couple weeks ago and, you know, I see where the critics really enjoyed this game.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's a really great, great title.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right, yeah, it's...
[SPEAKER_00]: and so on.
[SPEAKER_00]: Sure.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I can come up with a bunch of reasons, but if it were me and I didn't actually work here and I was looking, how am I going to spend my gaming dollars, there's a few things about game titles that would really sort of drive home the value for it for me.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them is just the sheer breadth of titles that we have.
[SPEAKER_00]: We've got now over 365 games in the system.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're adding between four and six a week right now.
[SPEAKER_00]: And the games cover everything from the granddaddy of video games, Pong,
[SPEAKER_00]: and Beyond Good and Evil and some of the Splinter Cell games so as a consumer there's just no way that I can afford to buy every game I might want to play but for a monthly fee I can try a lot of games that maybe I was on the fence about spending money on and I can play them as much as I want or not play them at all so there's no sort of
[SPEAKER_00]: Lost Value for me if I try a game, don't really like it, and move on to something else.
[SPEAKER_00]: I went out and spent $50 on something that I didn't like.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think the value of it is pretty big.
[SPEAKER_02]: That kind of relates to something I think I was reading on the website or something about.
[SPEAKER_02]: There was a good comparison to the fact that folks pay $14.95 a month for certain MMOs, and that's just for one game.
[SPEAKER_00]: Exactly, exactly.
[SPEAKER_00]: Like I said, we're launching more all the time.
[SPEAKER_00]: Just purely from that perspective, I think there's a value to us.
[SPEAKER_00]: and then the other thing is, you know, one of the things that we do, especially with the older games we have is, you know, we really take the time and put in the energy to make these games run the way that the original creators wanted them to run.
[SPEAKER_00]: So, you know, anybody can go out, download some emulation software, find some illegal ROMs and play a lot of these games.
[SPEAKER_00]: But the difference between, you know, that experience and the experience in GameTap is that, you know, we went directly to the publishers that, is this game running the way it's supposed to?
[SPEAKER_00]: And they gave us feedback like,
[SPEAKER_00]: That color blue is a little bit off.
[SPEAKER_00]: Can you fix that?
[SPEAKER_00]: It's running just a little bit too fast.
[SPEAKER_00]: Can you slow it down?
[SPEAKER_00]: There's this glitch that shouldn't be in there.
[SPEAKER_00]: Can you fix that?
[SPEAKER_00]: So we're sort of remastering these games for a new generation.
[SPEAKER_00]: When you get the game in GameTap, you're getting it the way it's supposed to be played.
[SPEAKER_00]: You're getting it the way the publishers want the game to be experienced.
[SPEAKER_02]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura
[SPEAKER_02]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think that's important.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then a lot of these games, even if you wanted to try and run them in an emulator, you may not be able to.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we have a bunch of DOS games in our service that honestly are kind of hard to get to run in any capacity.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's true.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of course, there's the Dreamcast titles that we have.
[SPEAKER_00]: We've got three up now.
[SPEAKER_00]: The Dreamcast as a platform is incredibly difficult to emulate.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's one of those tiny, complex things we've undertaken.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were going to put a lot more Dreamcast titles out this year, but where else can you
[SPEAKER_00]: Dreamcast Games
[SPEAKER_00]: we're going in, we're figuring out what do we have to do to our DOS emulator to make this game run right and then we're doing that work so there's a big difference between just taking some DOS files, running it through a free DOS emulator and the experience you get with us
[SPEAKER_02]: All right, awesome.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, I noticed that GameTap is constantly rolling out patches and features and new interface things.
[SPEAKER_02]: And one thing, when I initially was reviewing GameTap on the show, I kind of thought, gee, it would be really great if one day we could have a multiplayer element in this, especially when I see the leaderboards and the competition a little bit there.
[SPEAKER_02]: Is that a possibility for the future, multiplayer or other type of interactive features with the system?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, the simple answer is yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: The more complex answer is, I can't tell you too much about it right now, but multiplayer is something that we think is really important.
[SPEAKER_00]: Almost every game in our system has some component of multiplayer built into it, whether or not it's sitting next to somebody and you play together, or some of our PC titles which we're designed to run over the internet, peer-to-peer IP playing.
[SPEAKER_00]: So
[SPEAKER_00]: Multiplayer is very important to us.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's something we're working very hard on.
[SPEAKER_00]: And when we do have it, you'll find that it's something that's more than, I hope, what some people might have expected out of multiplayer.
[SPEAKER_00]: All right, excellent.
[SPEAKER_00]: We can't go into any more details than that.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right, well, we'll take that.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's a little hint of something to come.
[SPEAKER_02]: We've been talking a little bit about the games as they're rolled out.
[SPEAKER_02]: You release new games every week, and I've seen articles in the press lately about GameTap getting licenses with these other game companies.
[SPEAKER_02]: How does GameTap choose the games that will actually be included in the library?
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, right now, we've got a lot of games under license, more than we have in the system, obviously.
[SPEAKER_00]: The way that we try to figure out which games that we have under license are going to go into the system is a combination of taking a look at sort of the value of any individual game and saying, when's the best time to plug this into the system?
[SPEAKER_00]: So, Santa Time, for example, we wanted to put into this system to coincide with the launch of Two Thrones.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we did a big lead-up to it.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we put in Prince of Persia 1, Prince of Persia 2, the original Jordan Mechner games.
[SPEAKER_00]: We did a big video retrospective on the entire Prince of Persia series.
[SPEAKER_00]: from Prince of Persia 1 all the way through to Thrones, and then we finally launched Santa Time as our sort of finale to that effort.
[SPEAKER_00]: Other things that we look at doing are essentially a technical assessment.
[SPEAKER_00]: When technically can we get this game running well enough to be able to put it into the system?
[SPEAKER_00]: And honestly, that's probably our biggest gating factor.
[SPEAKER_00]: A lot of the stuff we have under license is difficult to get running.
[SPEAKER_00]: So the Dreamcast games, for example,
[SPEAKER_00]: We have quite a few other Dreamcast games under license.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're working very hard on getting all the emulation for each one of those games running.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's basically a game-by-game process.
[SPEAKER_00]: And as soon as those are ready, we're going to put them in.
[SPEAKER_00]: So it's a combination of what do we have that's available for us to use from the publishers that said, that's it, you got it right, you can use it, combined with what else is going on in the world that makes releasing this game a good time to release it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, that makes sense.
[SPEAKER_02]: You want to make sure that you're putting it out right and not just doing something rushed.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's very important, absolutely.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then the other thing we do is we try to put out big packages together.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we rolled out the Heroes of Might and Magic series as a series.
[SPEAKER_00]: But we had to wait for one of the games to get finished, one of the old DOS games we had some trouble getting running.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we held all the other Heroes of Might and Magic games until we could get that one final game fixed.
[SPEAKER_00]: Then we released the whole thing as a big, giant stunt where...
[SPEAKER_00]: You can play the entire Heroes of Might and Magic series.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's another way that we pick games.
[SPEAKER_02]: I've noticed that too, like with Space Quest 2, which is a series I've been following.
[SPEAKER_02]: It seemed like for a few weeks there, it was kind of like, okay, here's Space Quest 5 and 3.
[SPEAKER_02]: A new game from that series was showing up every couple weeks, which was kind of cool.
[SPEAKER_00]: Exactly, exactly.
[SPEAKER_02]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, I know you talked about a big push going on with Prince of Persia Sands of Time.
[SPEAKER_02]: Are there other types of big titles that GameTap's going to be adding in the future?
[SPEAKER_02]: Any hints that you can give us here on what's coming up?
[SPEAKER_00]: Let's see, hints that I can give you.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_00]: We have... What's a good franchise that's coming out?
[SPEAKER_00]: Probably nothing as big as Sands of Time in the next couple weeks, but we do have the series Lords of the Realm coming very soon.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: A very favorite classic series that a lot of people have enjoyed.
[SPEAKER_00]: We have another iteration of the Commandos series from
[SPEAKER_00]: Eidos coming soon.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: What else would I want to reveal?
[SPEAKER_00]: You know, I don't know that I'd want to reveal anything more than what I've just given you right now.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, that's fine.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's fine.
[SPEAKER_02]: We've got to keep some secrets.
[SPEAKER_00]: I've got to keep a few things in my back pocket.
[SPEAKER_00]: I already gave you the multiplayer hint.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right, all right.
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll take it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, one thing, okay, going to a completely different topic, because I know that GameTap is a little more than just the games, because when we originally reviewed GameTap on this program, we noticed the MediaPlex right away.
[SPEAKER_02]: We noticed this section of the software, and there's basically television program shorts that are kind of loaded in here that the subscribers can watch.
[SPEAKER_02]: How are these segments chosen for broadcast?
[SPEAKER_00]: You mean the...
[SPEAKER_00]: The theory behind our MediaPlex is really that GameTap as a whole is a combination of games on demand and video on demand.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're calling it a broadband network you can play kind of thing.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's sort of a new creature that lives online that takes things from internet, takes things from broadcast, from a lot of different entertainment disciplines and puts them together into a broadband package.
[SPEAKER_00]: So the MediaPlex is our linear video programming side of the equation.
[SPEAKER_00]: and in there we're trying to create sort of a TV network for the internet.
[SPEAKER_00]: TV networks, they're very linear.
[SPEAKER_00]: You don't have a lot of control over them unless you own a TV or a replay TV or some kind of other digital recording device.
[SPEAKER_00]: With our television offering, what we've got now and what I can tell you we're moving more towards is true video on demand where all of our programming is put in a place where you can decide what you want to watch, when you want to watch it, how you want to watch it.
[SPEAKER_00]: We create series based primarily on what we think our audience is interested in.
[SPEAKER_00]: We have a series called Tapped In.
[SPEAKER_00]: It's a behind-the-scenes, did-you-know, magazine-style show.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of my favorite episodes is about the Rayman franchise.
[SPEAKER_00]: What most people don't know about Rayman is that it was originally created by a teenager in France.
[SPEAKER_00]: The reason he has no arms and legs is because when they were animating him, the arms and legs just made the animation too choppy on the hardware at the time.
[SPEAKER_00]: So to keep the animation as fluid as possible, they just erased the arms and legs and they created this very iconic character who is still showing up in video games today.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we've got a program like that that is designed to provide sort of an informative look at games with a nice entertainment spin.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then we have Space Ghost, which is my favorite interviewer of all time.
[SPEAKER_02]: As with a lot of people, feel very similar.
[SPEAKER_00]: And with that, we want to bring
[SPEAKER_00]: and so on and so forth.
[SPEAKER_00]: Exactly, so that's our take there, that we wanted to bring a different perspective to interviewing to the game industry, and that's why Space Coast made the leap from broadcast to broadband.
[SPEAKER_00]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then other programming we picked to highlight some of the games in our system, and then other programming is really designed to sort of fill the entertainment needs of people who are interested in games.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our goal with MediaPlex is to provide
[SPEAKER_00]: Really interesting content that if you like games, you might also enjoy.
[SPEAKER_00]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_00]: Think of it as gaming lifestyle television.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, I have to go here because I went here when I initially reviewed GameTap on this program, and you brought up something that was very interesting in the last segment.
[SPEAKER_02]: You said nobody can do interviews, and you mentioned some other television stations right there.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, I noticed that GameTap is owned by Turner Broadcasting, who owns various over-cable television networks.
[SPEAKER_02]: Some gamers feel...
[SPEAKER_02]: Some gamers feel very underrepresented right now by what's on gaming television, so to speak.
[SPEAKER_02]: Is there a possibility of crossing over onto Turner's other properties, like the GameTap show on TBS, so folks over cable can feel represented again?
[SPEAKER_00]: You can always say there's a possibility.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't have anything like that planned right now.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our focus is really on broadband.
[SPEAKER_00]: We really believe that
[SPEAKER_00]: Gamers as a group, people who may not consider themselves gamers but enjoy games, they're moving increasingly to broadband as a platform.
[SPEAKER_00]: They're moving away from television.
[SPEAKER_00]: They're digesting information in a more sort of piece-by-piece kind of way.
[SPEAKER_00]: So instead of sitting back and watching a half hour of programming about games, they're more interested in, I want to see this and I want to see that, but I don't want to see the rest.
[SPEAKER_00]: So from our perspective, it's a much more compelling
[SPEAKER_00]: Content Offering, and also a much more compelling way to represent our audience to deliver our message and our content through the broadband medium rather than television.
[SPEAKER_02]: You know, one thing I've got to say I like about the way it's set up, too, that, you know, standard over cable networks wouldn't be able to provide is that, you know, when GameTap's featuring a game in one of the programs, I could click a couple buttons and then be playing that game.
[SPEAKER_02]: Exactly, exactly.
[SPEAKER_02]: And you'll see a lot more of that over the next few months.
[SPEAKER_02]: Excellent.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, to kind of go into a different topic here, with GameTap kind of tapping into these retro games as well as some of the newer titles as well, and this whole push towards a broadband center, basically, is it possible one day that GameTap could maybe leave the computer and become something that you plug right into the TV?
[SPEAKER_02]: Because I think about retro gaming is very popular with those little joysticks you can plug into the TV.
[SPEAKER_02]: Could GameTap be a console one day that you plug right into television?
[SPEAKER_00]: and so on.
[SPEAKER_00]: a decent Vive system hooked up to a TV and you've got GameTap as a platform running on your big screen.
[SPEAKER_00]: So it's not so far-fetched, but I don't know that we would want to necessarily work within the confines of one of those joysticks you plug into a TV for a variety of reasons.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them being if you added up the total volume, disk space volume of all the games we have in our library, you'd have to have a lot of hard drives to plug into your TV to get the GameTap experience.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, that's fair.
[SPEAKER_00]: All right.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then, you know, divorcing the video from GameTap, which you'd have to do in one of those things, but also, you know, it would sort of, it would make GameTap a lot less than it is today.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: My last question I have for you today is, is subscription and download-based gaming the future of gaming, as you see it, or is it just another thing that can complement the consoles, the CDs that we have now?
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't think digital delivery is going to replace physical delivery.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think it's going to be a great complement to physical delivery for a lot of reasons.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them is if you take a look at the latest generation of consoles coming out and the sheer quantity of data that has to fit on one of those disks for those games, physical storage is still outpacing the ability of broadband pipes to deliver that much data that quickly.
[SPEAKER_00]: So
[SPEAKER_00]: Our biggest games on GameTap still take 15, sometimes 20 minutes to download.
[SPEAKER_00]: And if you've got a slow connection, and I use slow as a relative term, like a DSL connection, it might take even longer versus, you know, a CD, you pop it in, you're ready to go.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of the things we do to make downloading less of a task is on GameTap you can play a smaller game like Pac-Man while you're downloading Splinter Cell.
[SPEAKER_00]: Digital Delivery Replacing Physical Delivery in the Next 5-10 Years
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, excellent.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, Rick Sanchez, Vice President of Content with GameTap, thank you so much for being on the show this week.
[SPEAKER_02]: We really appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_00]: No, you're welcome.
[SPEAKER_00]: I enjoyed it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Is there anything else you wanted to share with our listeners?
[SPEAKER_00]: What would I share with your listeners?
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, we've got some very good Space Ghosts coming up.
[SPEAKER_00]: If you haven't already tuned in, you should.
[SPEAKER_00]: We recently did a Space Ghost with Alcorn, the guy who created Pong.
[SPEAKER_00]: Very, very funny if you're a fan of the series.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: www.gametap.com if you want to check it out.
[SPEAKER_02]: Thanks again, Rick, for being here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Really appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_02]: And hope to have you on the show again sometime, especially when you get that multiplayer.
[SPEAKER_02]: Wink, wink.
Okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: That was pretty informative.
[SPEAKER_02]: Like that.
[SPEAKER_02]: Very cool.
[SPEAKER_02]: Multiplayer.
[SPEAKER_02]: Sounds exciting.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, thank you very much again to Rick for being here on the program this week.
[SPEAKER_02]: We really appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_02]: And looking forward to those new things coming on GameTap in the future.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's move on.
[SPEAKER_02]: Talk about something going on with a traditional console-style game.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, you noticed in that interview, Rick talked a lot about they try to make the games perfect and authentic and like the originals.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, sometimes the original games are flawed a little bit, aren't they?
[SPEAKER_02]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_02]: Such is the case with Animal Crossing, right, Jamie?
[SPEAKER_06]: Well, there's actually a teensy little bitty hack that is going out.
[SPEAKER_06]: Well, it's not really determined if it's a hack or just a glitch, but basically you'll receive a letter that says YYGH with a return signal or something to that effect that has a red tulip in it.
[SPEAKER_06]: Now, this red tulip is special because you can plant it anywhere.
[SPEAKER_06]: and I don't just mean you know anywhere you could plant it on pavement pull it up and then plant a tree there or you can also plant it in your house however planting it in your house is kind of crappy because once you plant it the space goes invisible you cannot put anything there you cannot move it you can't do anything basically the block of space that takes up is a dead space
[SPEAKER_06]: So, Nintendo has put out something to say about this.
[SPEAKER_06]: Basically saying that, you know, basically just what I said, you'll lose that space on your floor.
[SPEAKER_06]: It tells you, you know what it does, it says basically you don't want to drop the item in your house or outside your house.
[SPEAKER_06]: and if you happen to, make sure you do not save your game.
[SPEAKER_06]: Reset and face the wrath of Mr. Resetti.
[SPEAKER_02]: I was going to say, and face the wrath of Mr. Resetti.
[SPEAKER_03]: I don't know what's worse.
[SPEAKER_06]: Yeah, for 15 minutes.
[SPEAKER_03]: Well, what it actually ended up being is there was going to be another one of those letters.
[SPEAKER_03]: Remember how they have the coin that came out a while back?
[SPEAKER_03]: Right, I figured.
[SPEAKER_03]: It went out unfinished.
[SPEAKER_03]: And so when it got sent out, because the letter was from Nintendo itself, and so now this is going out and everyone's like, oh crap.
[SPEAKER_02]: Someone just got fired.
[SPEAKER_06]: I want a special red tulip.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know, I actually haven't checked my game today.
[SPEAKER_06]: I probably should.
[SPEAKER_03]: The special red tulip.
[SPEAKER_03]: I did not have mine.
[SPEAKER_03]: I checked and I went on Wi-Fi and nothing.
[SPEAKER_02]: It must have been on there for only a very short period of time.
[SPEAKER_06]: It actually, you know, to go and say it was actually confirmed via conversation by calling Nintendo's helpline.
[SPEAKER_06]: Also, there's another bit of issue going out with Animal Crossing Wild World.
[SPEAKER_06]: There are people who have basically revealed that their games have fallen prey to hackers who managed to remove the gates of the villages they visit.
[SPEAKER_06]: Gamers are trapped offline if they've saved after the hack has taken place.
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah, I heard about this.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's something like it jinxes your gate into a museum or something.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't know, it'll totally make your gate disappear and turn it into something else, so it's gone.
[SPEAKER_06]: But it's really a crappy thing to happen, to have your game just messed with like that.
[SPEAKER_06]: I mean, I don't see... It just goes to show there's people who try to pull crap because they can, without any regard to anybody but themselves.
[SPEAKER_02]: Be careful who you give your friend codes out to.
[SPEAKER_02]: and if we see somebody on the Orange Lounge friend code thread doing this stuff we will publicly embarrass you we will send you many red tulips of death and then some and publicly embarrass you that's right
[SPEAKER_02]: Not in a good way.
[SPEAKER_06]: Gamers all over the world will know your name.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're talking Wedgie from the Flagpole.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh, yeah.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: With barbed wire.
[SPEAKER_02]: Thank you for that lovely warning.
[SPEAKER_02]: Appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Since we're such Animal Crossing whores on this show, apparently, I swear, have we gone one week since the game came out and not talked about it in one way or another?
[SPEAKER_02]: No.
[SPEAKER_02]: Sad.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, speaking of the Wrath...
[SPEAKER_02]: Rockstar is feeling the wrath once again.
[SPEAKER_02]: Who from this time, Loki?
[SPEAKER_03]: This time from the city of L.A., and that's really retarded.
[SPEAKER_03]: But anyway, some L.A.
[SPEAKER_03]: attorney, Rocky Delag... Some guy named Rocky, okay, with a really hard-to-pronounce last name.
[SPEAKER_03]: Not that it really matters because this case is just going to get kicked out anyways, but he believes that Rockstar is responsible for the hot coffee crap that went on
[SPEAKER_03]: and basically it says, businesses have the obligation to truthfully disclose the content of their products, whether in the food we eat or in the entertainment we consume.
[SPEAKER_03]: So basically, you know, he's saying, oh, the poor children that have been hurt by the game, oh.
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura,
[SPEAKER_03]: Assuming the fact these parents shouldn't have been buying the games for their kids because the ratings are 17 and over.
[SPEAKER_03]: Hello?
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, I think they should be able to understand, oh, now there's a little bit of sex in here.
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, crap, you know.
[SPEAKER_03]: The other thing, also, he's looking for penalties against Take-Two and Rockstar and has requested that the companies fully disclose the content of their games.
[SPEAKER_03]: Probably also seeking some money as well.
[SPEAKER_02]: You know what else might be fueling this lawsuit?
[SPEAKER_02]: GamePolitics.com had a very interesting speculation on this.
[SPEAKER_02]: They ran a story on this earlier this week.
[SPEAKER_02]: This Rocky... I'll try the last name, okay, Loki?
[SPEAKER_02]: It's Rocky Delgadillo.
[SPEAKER_02]: How's that?
[SPEAKER_02]: Does that sound right?
[SPEAKER_02]: Sounds okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: He's actually running for California Attorney General this year and will be in the June 6th primary.
[SPEAKER_03]: So he's playing a Clinton.
[SPEAKER_03]: Hmm.
[SPEAKER_03]: You know what?
[SPEAKER_03]: I hope that everyone that runs on the platform of video game violence hurting our children fails and burns in hell.
[SPEAKER_03]: That's what I hope.
[SPEAKER_03]: Right there.
[SPEAKER_00]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, that's one of those draw your own conclusions and opinions on that political stuff.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't know.
[SPEAKER_02]: I just think politicians in general are misinformed on this whole thing.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's kind of my...
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, you really think that he doesn't have any idea what's going on at all?
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm saying you don't have to be Democrat, Republican, Libertarian, Green Party.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't care who you are.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think politicians in general are misinformed on this whole thing.
[SPEAKER_06]: Or...
[SPEAKER_06]: It may not necessarily be that they're misinformed, but they're spreading the misinformation.
[SPEAKER_03]: And money on this crap.
[SPEAKER_03]: Why aren't they going after them?
[SPEAKER_03]: That's what I want to know.
[SPEAKER_03]: There was no mention in BloodRayne at all in the beginning of the entire previews.
[SPEAKER_03]: There was no mention that there was going to be boobies in there.
[SPEAKER_03]: And my god, there were boobies in there!
[SPEAKER_02]: I was totally caught off guard!
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, what about the MPAA thing that says rated R for sexuality and all that stuff?
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, sexual... What the hell does sexuality mean?
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, because that was on Grand Theft Auto.
[SPEAKER_03]: I didn't know they were talking about boobies.
[SPEAKER_02]: Rated R because she might be a lesbian.
[SPEAKER_03]: We just don't know.
[SPEAKER_03]: And violence and stuff, but oh my god, there was boobies in there.
[SPEAKER_03]: And this is the thing.
[SPEAKER_03]: Why aren't they going after crappy entertainment?
[SPEAKER_03]: Because that is more of a threat to society than these games.
[SPEAKER_03]: You know, to go...
[SPEAKER_03]: I don't have to put a special code in for the crap to pop up on the screen.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's already there.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's written in the script.
[SPEAKER_03]: So what we need to do is we need to go after these people and stop freaking trying to blame everybody for everything.
[SPEAKER_03]: There was another story earlier this week saying, Oh, this car crash is caused by need for Speed Most Wanted because the game has cars in it.
[SPEAKER_03]: Therefore, the game caused the crash.
[SPEAKER_03]: It was retarded.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright, you can send those cards and letters to Loki, careofmailbag at orangelaundradio.com.
[SPEAKER_02]: I know we'll be getting lots of those.
[SPEAKER_06]: Your rants are so entertaining.
[SPEAKER_06]: I just sit back here and laugh and laugh.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, you know, one thing, sometimes the folks that get blamed in these situations are the parents.
[SPEAKER_02]: But are every parent these anti... I shouldn't say anti.
[SPEAKER_02]: Is every parent completely misinformed when it comes to video games?
[SPEAKER_06]: You know...
[SPEAKER_06]: I'm going to
[SPEAKER_06]: A study that's out by the Peter D. Hart Research Associates that was released by the ESA that shows that 35% of US parents play games with their children.
[SPEAKER_06]: 80% of the study group actually plays with their children and 47% of them are women.
[SPEAKER_02]: Girl gamers!
[SPEAKER_02]: Interesting for those folks to say, you know, girls don't play games.
[SPEAKER_02]: 47% of mommies.
[SPEAKER_06]: It's 35% of US parents play.
[SPEAKER_02]: I totally just distorted that statistic, but anyway.
[SPEAKER_06]: 35% of parents play, 47% of them are women, and 80% of gaming parents say they play with their children.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, got it.
[SPEAKER_06]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: Did you also know 65% of statistics are made up on the spot?
[SPEAKER_02]: Wow!
[SPEAKER_02]: Just kidding.
[SPEAKER_06]: But the other interesting thing about this is that they also show with this study that 85% of voting parents, including those who do not play video games, say that parents should take responsibility for their children's exposure to the games.
[SPEAKER_06]: The ESA president stated, I'm just going to quote, this research suggests that proposals to regulate video games may backfire with American voters who, unlike some elected officials, appear to fully understand that they should control the entertainment that comes into their homes.
[SPEAKER_02]: There's also some more interesting statistics.
[SPEAKER_02]: Huh.
[SPEAKER_02]: Interesting.
[SPEAKER_06]: So, you know, it just points out, you know, this whole crap we're seeing about games, I honestly have a feeling that we're probably going to see a dying off because we, our generation, we are the ones who grew up with the video games, aren't we?
[SPEAKER_02]: I agree.
[SPEAKER_02]: Not everybody, but, you know, a lot.
[SPEAKER_06]: But most of us.
[SPEAKER_06]: We remember when these were all new and shiny and nothing like this had ever been seen before.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know, it's one thing to say...
[SPEAKER_06]: The video game boom started in my lifetime, you know?
[SPEAKER_06]: And more and more of us are going to be raised gamers.
[SPEAKER_02]: And when they say parents play video games with their kids, they don't mean like Grand Theft Auto is what they're playing with their kids.
[SPEAKER_02]: There's plenty of family-friendly games out there that parents can play with their kids, like the guy game.
[SPEAKER_06]: Like a, you know, like Katamari Damacy.
[SPEAKER_06]: That's good, clean, rolling over people fun.
[SPEAKER_02]: Tetris and the Spongebob, the endless barrage of Spongebob games they put out on the various consoles.
[SPEAKER_06]: Mary-Kate and Ashley Shop-a-thon.
[SPEAKER_02]: The Winx.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright.
[SPEAKER_02]: Ha ha ha.
[SPEAKER_02]: GameWriters Conference
[SPEAKER_06]: that actually took place in Austin last October.
[SPEAKER_02]: Will they be actually teaching people how to write for games?
[SPEAKER_02]: Because some of them need some bad help.
[SPEAKER_02]: Some of them are doing okay, but some of them need some help.
[SPEAKER_06]: It actually does specifically state here that games were not so much written as put together by the programmers and the artists involved, but a lot more publishers are actually looking to have writing behind the games, good solid writing,
[SPEAKER_06]: Just like you would for a movie, you know, or like a television production.
[SPEAKER_06]: You can't have a story without someone to write it, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: True, true.
[SPEAKER_06]: So, you know, there's also involvement then with this from the Writers Guild of America that started its new media caucus to bring new writers in.
[SPEAKER_06]: Let's see, I've got a name on here.
[SPEAKER_06]: There's the author of three James Bond screenplays.
[SPEAKER_06]: DarkSakura,
[SPEAKER_06]: There's actually a pretty good quote in here from the guild president, Patrick Varan is his name.
[SPEAKER_06]: Game players are becoming more sophisticated in terms of their expectations.
[SPEAKER_06]: At the same time, the publishers are making licensing deals, many of which require quality storytelling to be built into the games.
[SPEAKER_06]: As you know, storytelling and character development don't just fall out of the sky.
[SPEAKER_06]: They actually have to be written by creative talent.
[SPEAKER_02]: What do you think would be the difference between game writing and movie writing?
[SPEAKER_06]: Not too much, really.
[SPEAKER_06]: Because think about this, a lot more games, especially the more cinematic the game, have full storyboards made for them.
[SPEAKER_06]: I mean, scripted, you have to have dialogue scripted for any, you know, it was one thing back when we were all pixel games, you could say, sorry Mario, our princess is in another castle.
[SPEAKER_06]: But it's another thing now to have full-blown conversations between characters, full-on dialogue.
[SPEAKER_06]: You have to have someone sit back and write exactly how everything's going to pan out.
[SPEAKER_06]: Especially, say you have a game where you've got multi-directions, you have to be able to write on multiple paths.
[SPEAKER_06]: You can't just say, oh, here's a game.
[SPEAKER_06]: You have to know where you're going to go.
[SPEAKER_06]: They're as much of a story as reading a book.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_06]: I think that I have decided that that's what I want to do when I grow up.
[SPEAKER_02]: Really?
[SPEAKER_02]: Write for games?
[SPEAKER_06]: Well, you know, I'm actually in school to do, because part of what I want to do is manuals.
[SPEAKER_02]: So will you write a game and then we can give it a negative review on the show?
[SPEAKER_06]: No.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm just teasing.
[SPEAKER_06]: Anything that I do is instantly fabulous.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm reading some feedback from the chat room.
[SPEAKER_02]: The chat room is actually still responding to the last story about the parents and the video games.
[SPEAKER_02]: Toasty says his mom played Shenmue.
[SPEAKER_02]: Remember that one on the Dreamcast?
[SPEAKER_02]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_06]: We played the heck out of Shenmue.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know what?
[SPEAKER_06]: Nothing.
[SPEAKER_02]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura, DarkSakura
[SPEAKER_03]: Other than a lot of electrocutions.
[SPEAKER_03]: Not much.
[SPEAKER_03]: Anyways, we've got yet another politician running on a stupid platform that has to do with video games.
[SPEAKER_03]: And this one's just completely retarded.
[SPEAKER_03]: First off, you can visit this guy, Starlock, which is also a really dumb name.
[SPEAKER_03]: His website, which I'm going to read the motto off the top of the page.
[SPEAKER_03]: As for me and my house, we serve the Lord.
[SPEAKER_03]: To give you an idea of what his views are on violent video games and anything else that might be bad for you.
[SPEAKER_03]: To start off, his platform is he wants to propose a $10,000 per abortion tax for medical clinics.
[SPEAKER_03]: He also wants to eliminate property taxes, of course, financing all the other tax revenue via these.
[SPEAKER_03]: But the main one, of course, is 100% tax on any violent video game.
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura, DarkSakura
[SPEAKER_03]: and also a 50% grease tax on all food prepared by deep frying or cooking in any form of oil or grease there will also be a 75% tax on fun this
[SPEAKER_03]: And this is another guy who probably won't... I mean, granted, even if you don't agree with the whole video game 100% tax or whatever, or even if you do agree with that, you're probably not going to agree with half the other stuff that he has on here.
[SPEAKER_03]: You know, bad food and everything.
[SPEAKER_02]: Somebody agrees with him.
[SPEAKER_02]: He's a politician.
[SPEAKER_02]: Somebody voted for him.
[SPEAKER_06]: Honestly...
[SPEAKER_06]: This actually isn't the first time I've heard about the food specific one.
[SPEAKER_06]: And part of me agrees with it because honestly I do think that those industries need to be penalized for basically poisoning our country.
[SPEAKER_06]: I mean this in all seriousness.
[SPEAKER_06]: You've noticed that obesity is on the rise among Americans.
[SPEAKER_06]: It's epidemic.
[SPEAKER_06]: I mean seriously it's horrible.
[SPEAKER_06]: So I actually sort of support that.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know the tax on sugar.
[SPEAKER_02]: But to that extreme.
[SPEAKER_06]: However, keep in mind that the fast food industry also lobbies heavily and pays the government a lot of money to stay in business.
[SPEAKER_03]: I wonder what the property tax is on this guy's giant ranch he probably has.
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, maybe that's why he wants to remove property tax and tax all these things he probably doesn't have anything to do.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, who's going to...
[SPEAKER_03]: I really don't get it.
[SPEAKER_06]: That ain't gonna fly.
[SPEAKER_02]: It comes back to where's the definition of violent game?
[SPEAKER_02]: We have these politicians that are flinging about the term violent video game.
[SPEAKER_02]: Where's the definition?
[SPEAKER_02]: What is the impartial party that makes a call on what constitutes a violent video game and what doesn't?
[SPEAKER_02]: It's too gray for me.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's what I don't like about these laws is that violent video game is not like the buzzword in the political world.
[SPEAKER_02]: Don't worry though.
[SPEAKER_03]: For determining whether games are going to be violent or not, he's got that covered.
[SPEAKER_03]: He's going to have a 10-person panel that's going to help determine which games are violent.
[SPEAKER_03]: The tax itself will be levied against publishers of said games.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, so a 10-person panel.
[SPEAKER_02]: Who goes on that panel?
[SPEAKER_02]: Who audits that panel?
[SPEAKER_02]: What if the panel's getting paid off?
[SPEAKER_02]: Where's the checks and balances here?
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't know.
[SPEAKER_02]: It still seems too simple of a solution to a more complicated problem.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think it's perfect.
[SPEAKER_03]: I think his solution's flawless.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, I don't see any flaw with his theory on being able to squeeze money out of the publishers.
[SPEAKER_03]: Of course, that's going to fly.
[SPEAKER_03]: I'm sure his interests are really on the good of humanity and not like some other third party interest like oil or something like that.
[SPEAKER_03]: All the greatest politicians come out of Texas.
[SPEAKER_03]: You have to understand that.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's see.
[SPEAKER_02]: HitStun wants to ask, what is it with the rest of the U.S.
[SPEAKER_02]: and its obsession with dumb laws and lawsuits?
[SPEAKER_02]: Fireboma says, some politician wanted to do the junk food tax in New York City and got shot down.
[SPEAKER_02]: Also in chat, Xander C says, I love Texas.
[SPEAKER_02]: The politics suck, but the residents are actually really cool.
[SPEAKER_02]: I agree.
[SPEAKER_02]: I know some very wonderful people from Texas.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's right.
[SPEAKER_02]: And the old radio show I used to do, they're in Texas now.
[SPEAKER_02]: Good time.
[SPEAKER_06]: You know what I think they should do as far as the food?
[SPEAKER_06]: And I've heard this suggestion brought up.
[SPEAKER_06]: They should actually subsidize the cost of fresh produce for low-income families because actually the ones who actually support the industry most of all statistically are shown to be people of low-income families because honestly, it's cheap food.
[SPEAKER_06]: And actually, if this is going to... You know what they adhere McDonald's meat with?
[SPEAKER_06]: Shall I gross everyone out?
[SPEAKER_02]: Why not?
[SPEAKER_06]: Cow eyeballs.
[SPEAKER_02]: Ew.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's still beef.
[SPEAKER_02]: Or beefy.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright.
[SPEAKER_02]: Alright, let's move on.
[SPEAKER_02]: From sitting there, I thought you were going to say tofu.
[SPEAKER_03]: I was really scared.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's bring it back to games here for a little bit.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's move on over to what's going on with the E3 Expo and what could possibly be another politically motivated event.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't know.
[SPEAKER_02]: Jamie?
[SPEAKER_06]: Well, you know, a lot of the guys go to E3 for the games.
[SPEAKER_02]: Uh-huh, I do.
[SPEAKER_06]: Some go for the special presentations.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'd say that's a good part of it, too.
[SPEAKER_06]: A good number of the average goer goes to see scantily clad women.
[SPEAKER_06]: Guess what?
[SPEAKER_06]: You lose!
[SPEAKER_02]: How so?
[SPEAKER_06]: That is because the video game industry recently got the big ol' kick in the butt from federal and local politicians who want to limit...
[SPEAKER_06]: The sales of violent and sexually explicit games to minors Therefore, there is a new ban Coming from the Entertainment Software Association Who is the promoter of E3 Says materials including live models Conduct that is sexually explicit and or sexually provocative Including but not limited to nudity, partial nudity, and bathing suit bottoms Are prohibited from the show floor, all common areas, and at any access points to the show However, faking orgasms is okay
[SPEAKER_06]: which I will do in public.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh really?
[SPEAKER_02]: I think we just got that on record here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Stay tuned to E3 Thursday edition.
[SPEAKER_02]: I was lying.
[SPEAKER_02]: Jamie will be at Konami.
[SPEAKER_02]: There's more!
[SPEAKER_02]: Yes.
[SPEAKER_06]: Exhibitors will receive a verbal warning when they violate this rule.
[SPEAKER_06]: A second violation says they'll impose a $5,000 penalty payable immediately.
[SPEAKER_06]: This would also require that the models comply with the dress code before returning to the floor.
[SPEAKER_02]: And what happens if you're not able to pay the $5,000 fee?
[SPEAKER_06]: I guess you're out.
[SPEAKER_06]: I guess they shut you down.
[SPEAKER_06]: I haven't seen anything specific like that.
[SPEAKER_03]: What happens if they're not on the floor?
[SPEAKER_03]: They could be swinging.
[SPEAKER_03]: What if they're walking around outside the building?
[SPEAKER_06]: Floor in general, as in floor as in defined as the presentation area.
[SPEAKER_06]: Now, if they're in the bathroom, I don't think that's a problem.
[SPEAKER_03]: Go see the new booth for Rockstar Games in the men's bathroom.
[SPEAKER_03]: That's fine.
[SPEAKER_02]: They'll just be scantily clad models outside of E3.
[SPEAKER_02]: Ah!
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, I actually read somewhere in some story that was a follow-up to this.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's not really a new rule, but that they've dug up this rule that was all... They say it was always there.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're just, you know, we're restating our enforcement policy.
[SPEAKER_03]: Is that like those laws where it's illegal to tie up an alligator to a...
[SPEAKER_03]: It's hard not to after eating Taco Bell.
[SPEAKER_06]: We're going to get some hate mail from the fast food industry tonight.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, trying to keep things moving here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Good idea, bad idea, who cares what?
[SPEAKER_03]: I think it's stupid.
[SPEAKER_03]: Once again, do they actually pay attention to the rules?
[SPEAKER_03]: Have they read the rules?
[SPEAKER_03]: Because last time I checked, you know, they're trying not to, you know,
[SPEAKER_03]: Expose minors to nudity and violence and stuff.
[SPEAKER_03]: There are no minors that attend E3.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's 18 and over, dumbasses.
[SPEAKER_03]: What the hell?
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, who cares?
[SPEAKER_03]: So what?
[SPEAKER_03]: They're partially nude.
[SPEAKER_03]: They're portraying game people.
[SPEAKER_03]: They get people to booths.
[SPEAKER_03]: That's all.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, I don't understand what the big deal is.
[SPEAKER_03]: Why are they getting all their panties in a bunch over something stupid like this?
[SPEAKER_03]: Are they hurting that bad for money?
[SPEAKER_02]: Actually, they won't be able to get their panties in a bunch because they can't wear those.
[SPEAKER_02]: They have to...
[SPEAKER_02]: has to be granny panties but covered.
[SPEAKER_03]: Fine!
[SPEAKER_03]: I hope they have some really fucking skin-tight shit because that's what's going to happen.
[SPEAKER_03]: They can be covered, but it's going to be showing everything.
[SPEAKER_03]: So, I don't know.
[SPEAKER_03]: I think it's really stupid, the rule.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, I understand, you know, people are always saying, oh, they're victimized.
[SPEAKER_03]: Whatever, you know, people go for the booth babes.
[SPEAKER_03]: No, no one goes for the booth babes.
[SPEAKER_03]: They go to see the games.
[SPEAKER_03]: The booth babes are just an added bonus.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's like getting, you know, free curly fries with your, you know,
[SPEAKER_03]: MiniMe2831 says, If you want a bunch of scantily clad women, go to the Scantily Clad Women Expo.
[SPEAKER_06]: You want games?
[SPEAKER_06]: Go to E3.
[SPEAKER_02]: Loki, rebuttal?
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah, that won't stop G4 from having 400 billion interns there.
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah, but they're not doing video games anymore.
[SPEAKER_03]: I mean, haven't you noticed?
[SPEAKER_02]: Moving on, other feedback from the chatroom.
[SPEAKER_02]: Tomo-kun says, where are the booth studs?
[SPEAKER_02]: Where are the booth studs?
[SPEAKER_02]: Jamie, where were the booth studs at E3?
[SPEAKER_06]: They were usually in the hallway.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well...
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll see what happens with this as it develops and how folks get creative at E3 this year.
[SPEAKER_02]: You know what, though?
[SPEAKER_02]: Honestly, I don't think it's going to be that much different.
[SPEAKER_02]: You're still going to see sexy women walking around.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's just that they won't be wearing anything too revealing.
[SPEAKER_02]: You know what I mean?
[SPEAKER_02]: Those Hooters outfits are still pretty covering, but they show off everything that needs to be seen.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't think much will change.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think it's getting blown out of proportion.
[SPEAKER_03]: I think the reasons though, their excuses, oh, it's because the hot coffee, everyone's blaming goddamn Rockstar for everything.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's retarded.
[SPEAKER_03]: Are booth babes appropriate at a gaming expo?
[SPEAKER_03]: Yes!
[SPEAKER_03]: They have booth babes at car shows.
[SPEAKER_03]: They have booth babes probably at computer shows.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's kind of a thing that you do at expos.
[SPEAKER_03]: They have scantily clad women at anime conventions.
[SPEAKER_03]: Yeah, they're the cosplayers.
[SPEAKER_03]: Granted, they may not look as nice as these models, but they do have them.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's just something that goes with conventions.
[SPEAKER_03]: Big deal.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's getting you to go visit their booth.
[SPEAKER_03]: That is the whole point of it.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's one step short of launching fireworks into the show floor.
[SPEAKER_03]: It's pretty much it.
[SPEAKER_03]: Whether it be rappers, people yelling, scantily clad women for photo ops, that's why they're there.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right, let's keep it moving.
[SPEAKER_02]: Going to a completely different topic here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Again, if you guys want to give some feedback, mailbag at orangelaunchradio.com.
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll get into your emails sometime in the next hour.
[SPEAKER_02]: But for now, we're trying to wrap up this hour, so we're going to keep it moving.
[SPEAKER_02]: And, Loki, what's going on with Final Fantasy XI?
[SPEAKER_02]: I know we talked about the ninja and pirate thing, Miklatov, but there's more Final Fantasy XI news coming.
[SPEAKER_03]: Well, Final Fantasy XI is set to debut on the 360 April 18th in North America.
[SPEAKER_03]: Following with a dual release in Japan and Europe,
[SPEAKER_03]: only two days later on April 20th.
[SPEAKER_03]: It will also feature the brand new expansion The Treasures of Ot Ergon and basically the expansion for the PC will also coincide with the launch as well.
[SPEAKER_03]: And one thing to mention that you still require that you have a hard drive and Xbox Live account for this and also the game is still going to suck on the 360.
[SPEAKER_03]: So
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura, DarkSakura
[SPEAKER_03]: Ooh, wow, you mean they're not going to give me a better version of Final Fantasy for the 360 that might actually use the hardware for it or might even be in high def?
[SPEAKER_02]: But it's a Moogle Rod!
[SPEAKER_03]: Oh, I'm sorry, that totally makes, you know, up for the crappy game that they're giving me for $60.
[SPEAKER_02]: Let's talk about another MMO, shall we?
[SPEAKER_02]: World of Warcraft GLBT
[SPEAKER_02]: What the hell is the debate going on?
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, what happened is that there was a player, her name is Sarah Andrews, and she was advertising for a guild, her GLBT-friendly guild, which was Oz.
[SPEAKER_02]: It was the name of the guild.
[SPEAKER_02]: And it was on one of the servers, I don't remember the name of the server off the top of my head, but...
[SPEAKER_02]: This player was issued with a warning from Blizzard under the harassment sexual orientation policy.
[SPEAKER_02]: So in other words, she's out in the town, as often happens in MMOs, people are shouting, you know, complete this quest, I want to do this, who's got this item for me, who can do enchanting?
[SPEAKER_02]: But she's shouting for her guild, and shouting for guild recruitment is not an uncommon thing.
[SPEAKER_02]: You see it in most MMOs, right?
[SPEAKER_02]: Final Fantasy XI, whatever.
[SPEAKER_02]: But her thing was that she was shouting, and it said somewhere at the end, you know,
[SPEAKER_02]: GLBT-friendly or GLBT-OK, something like that.
[SPEAKER_02]: She got a warning from Blizzard saying that that was, you know, that GLBT, that they don't want those type of social issues being promoted in the game chat.
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, they're saying it's not just GLBT, but they're saying, you know, political and religious would also be on the no-no list for this.
[SPEAKER_06]: Where in the licensing agreement did it say so?
[SPEAKER_02]: They keep quoting a part of it.
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't know.
[SPEAKER_02]: But here's the... I don't have the specific on where it's at in the agreement.
[SPEAKER_02]: But Blizzard actually posted a response in their forums.
[SPEAKER_02]: I actually saw this post for myself on one of the chats in the forums there.
[SPEAKER_02]: It came from a Blizzard rep.
[SPEAKER_02]: It said...
[SPEAKER_02]: Apologies for the length of time it took to get this information out to you.
[SPEAKER_02]: We encourage community building among our players with others of similar interests, and we understand that guilds are one of the primary ways to forge these communities.
[SPEAKER_02]: However, topics related to sensitive real-world subjects, such as religious, sexual, or political preference, for example, have had a tendency to result in communication between players that often breaks down into harassment.
[SPEAKER_02]: To promote a positive game environment for everyone and help prevent such harassment from taking place as best we can,
[SPEAKER_02]: Thank you for watching!
[SPEAKER_02]: located at our community website serves as one open avenue for doing so.
[SPEAKER_02]: We will be clarifying some of the language in our game policies in order to help avoid such confusion in the future.
[SPEAKER_02]: So that was the response from Blizzard.
[SPEAKER_02]: But I don't know.
[SPEAKER_02]: For some folks, this isn't good enough.
[SPEAKER_02]: And I can kind of see why because, you know, I don't know how much you guys have played World of Warcraft, these online games, and sometimes there's people around the town going, you know, stop being such a fag.
[SPEAKER_02]: and stuff like that, and it's kind of like, you know... Where's their warning?
[SPEAKER_02]: Exactly, where's their warning?
[SPEAKER_02]: And Blizzard says, well, you have to warn us about that every time.
[SPEAKER_02]: And I thought there was a very excellent response.
[SPEAKER_02]: I was actually looking at the Gamers Experimentations Forum, which is a gamer message forum, and somebody on there had a response to something like, why are you punishing the people on this end of this?
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm not doing a direct quote, I'm doing what I remember here.
[SPEAKER_02]: Why are you punishing the people that are trying to promote this?
[SPEAKER_02]: Why aren't you punishing the people...
[SPEAKER_02]: If you're saying that you're trying to do this because it could constitute harassment, it may turn into harassment later on, why aren't you doing anything about the harassment?
[SPEAKER_02]: Why is it that you do it on this end and not on the end when it turns into harassment?
[SPEAKER_02]: Other thoughts on this?
[SPEAKER_02]: I have more to add, but I want to see your guys' initial thoughts on this.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anybody?
[SPEAKER_02]: Was she a sexy night elf?
[SPEAKER_03]: I really don't know.
[SPEAKER_03]: I really don't know if she was a sexy night elf or not.
[SPEAKER_03]: I'm afraid I can't comment on this.
[SPEAKER_03]: DarkSakura?
[SPEAKER_06]: You know, I actually agree with what you were saying on that.
[SPEAKER_06]: I think it's very touchy.
[SPEAKER_06]: It's not something that they can penalize one party for and not penalize other parties addressing it in different manners.
[SPEAKER_06]: I think that they took something and pushed it a bit too... I don't think she's doing anything wrong.
[SPEAKER_02]: No, definitely not.
[SPEAKER_02]: Definitely not.
[SPEAKER_02]: I know, it's tough.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's tough.
[SPEAKER_02]: Okay, I'm going to say something.
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm going to clarify something on the podcast, which I don't think I've ever said on the podcast before, but I just want to make sure this is understood.
[SPEAKER_02]: I am a gay gamer.
[SPEAKER_02]: So if that's a problem for anybody out there, hello and welcome to 2006.
[SPEAKER_02]: Get over it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, and obviously it's not been an issue in the past year of podcasts we've done.
[SPEAKER_02]: We've never had an excuse to bring that subject up before, but now we do.
[SPEAKER_02]: I want to give you my perspective on this as a gay gamer.
[SPEAKER_02]: When I first...
[SPEAKER_02]: Read about this story and heard about it.
[SPEAKER_02]: I actually kind of thought I didn't quite understand the big deal because I'm like, okay, I understand Blizzard has this policy where they don't want that kind of stuff being brought up in game and I can kind of see that.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's that, you know, it's a game and they want to keep some of that real world stuff out of it and okay, that's cool.
[SPEAKER_02]: But my problem is, is I think Blizzard is kind of half-assed with their enforcement of it sometimes because
[SPEAKER_02]: Subtitles by the Amara.org community
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, and I think if you're in a guild where people can tease each other, it's okay.
[SPEAKER_02]: I've been in those types of guilds before.
[SPEAKER_02]: I had one in Final Fantasy XI.
[SPEAKER_02]: It wasn't a gay guild, so to speak.
[SPEAKER_02]: It was a GLBT-friendly guild because there were lots of gay guys in it.
[SPEAKER_03]: And I don't think that's the way that it sounded like that they were advertising the guild.
[SPEAKER_03]: It didn't sound that offensive anyways.
[SPEAKER_03]: It wasn't like saying, yeah, if you like eating carpet, come on our way.
[SPEAKER_03]: If you like taking up the ass, we're the guild for you or something.
[SPEAKER_03]: It was a disclaimer, to be honest.
[SPEAKER_06]: She did it the right way.
[SPEAKER_06]: She said, hey, I've got this guild, it's a great guild, and put a disclaimer to clarify.
[SPEAKER_06]: That's how I see it.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's kind of my thought on it.
[SPEAKER_02]: It was my initial thought with it.
[SPEAKER_02]: It was kind of like, you know what?
[SPEAKER_02]: I think the big problem here was the way they responded to her.
[SPEAKER_02]: If they had just said, you know what?
[SPEAKER_02]: If they hadn't said, oh, you violated our harassment policy.
[SPEAKER_02]: That was the problem, I think.
[SPEAKER_02]: They should have treated it a little differently.
[SPEAKER_06]: As one who has done chat moderating before, I used to be a chat host for AOL back in the day.
[SPEAKER_06]: You are given set macro responses.
[SPEAKER_06]: You have to respond with a macro.
[SPEAKER_06]: They are all approved by their legal and whoever the hell they are.
[SPEAKER_06]: Clarification can be provided by contacting, at least through AOL, their terms of service people, which I would expect this is the same situation because technically it is chat monitoring, the shouting and everything.
[SPEAKER_06]: It would be responded to with some sort of pre-approved macro and they pick the most appropriate one.
[SPEAKER_06]: Since it specifically relates to that policy, that is the policy quoted.
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, their macros suck.
[SPEAKER_02]: Homogenized?
[SPEAKER_02]: No way, I like the ladies.
[SPEAKER_02]: So in the game, a tauren male might say, homogenized?
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, that's the type of joke that usually would make me laugh.
[SPEAKER_02]: But now that I think about it in this context where Blizzard says, this kind of thing has no place in our game, I go, hello?
[SPEAKER_05]: They've included it.
[SPEAKER_02]: Hello?
[SPEAKER_02]: Is this a bit of an inconsistency?
[SPEAKER_02]: Here's another one.
[SPEAKER_02]: Listen to this.
[SPEAKER_02]: If you use a tauren male once again with slash flirt.
[SPEAKER_02]: Free rides for the ladies.
[SPEAKER_02]: Free Rides for the Ladies.
[SPEAKER_02]: What if I'm on a roleplay server, and what if I'm in a gay guild that was promoted the appropriate way, and I want my character to be a gay character?
[SPEAKER_02]: Now, usually I would not take issue with this.
[SPEAKER_02]: I understand that, okay, heterosexual is kind of the majority or whatever, and I can take this stuff in jest.
[SPEAKER_02]: You know, I'm not GLAAD, okay?
[SPEAKER_02]: I don't have a problem with these sound clips by themselves.
[SPEAKER_02]: It's fine.
[SPEAKER_06]: They're being
[SPEAKER_02]: Now it's a hypocrisy.
[SPEAKER_02]: That's the problem I have with it.
[SPEAKER_06]: On top of that, for them to even have that in the game, that would have to be approved by their QA, by whatever legal review they have it go through.
[SPEAKER_06]: That had to have been approved by somebody.
[SPEAKER_06]: And then for them to go in and have this rule in place, this type of standard that they're trying to adhere to, yet have it built into the game itself something completely opposite.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, I kind of want to keep things moving.
[SPEAKER_02]: Any other feedback from anyone on this?
[SPEAKER_02]: I'm still going to play it.
[SPEAKER_01]: It doesn't bother me in the least.
[SPEAKER_01]: Really?
[SPEAKER_02]: And you're okay with me saying you're a gay gamer too?
[SPEAKER_02]: Well, you just have no feeling about this?
[SPEAKER_01]: No reaction?
[SPEAKER_01]: I think Blizzard's stupid for saying, oh, we don't want it in our game, and then that clip of the Torrent talking.
[SPEAKER_01]: Whatever, I'm a troll.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't even hear that.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm just going to keep shooting things with my arrows and sending my scorpion after.
[SPEAKER_06]: I play a night elephant in Undead, so whatever.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think a lot of the gay folks and my peers, essentially, were quick to shun World of Warcraft pretty quickly.
[SPEAKER_02]: I think Blizzard needs a chance to clarify their policies and whatever.
[SPEAKER_02]: But I do see there's an inconsistency here that needs to be addressed.
[SPEAKER_02]: And if it's not addressed, I'm not going to be happy.
[SPEAKER_06]: Next two patches, I bet you anything, those clips will be changed.
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll see.
[SPEAKER_06]: At least if Blizzard doesn't want to, I'd say, lose some of their clientele, they better change it.
[SPEAKER_01]: If they're going to get all angry about somebody shouting for that, can they please get angry about the Chuck Norris things?
[SPEAKER_01]: Because I'm really sick of those.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I think that constitutes as harassment, that I have to put it up with that.
[SPEAKER_02]: I agree, too.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: Anyway, we got to keep it moving here.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're running really long for the first hour.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're almost in the first hour and a half here.
[SPEAKER_02]: So do you guys maybe want to just go ahead and go to our break now?
[SPEAKER_02]: And then we'll come back for the next part.
[SPEAKER_06]: But remember, Chuck Norris doesn't sleep.
[SPEAKER_06]: He waits.
[SPEAKER_02]: Oh my god.
[SPEAKER_02]: All right.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're going to go ahead and go to a break.
[SPEAKER_02]: When we come back, we're going to talk about Konami Gamers Day.
[SPEAKER_02]: We're going to talk about the possibilities of Microsoft entering the home market, maybe.
[SPEAKER_02]: We'll see.
[SPEAKER_02]: That was going around this week.
[SPEAKER_02]: The mailbag, the FUs of the week, the website of the week, and another MMO called Audition.
[SPEAKER_02]: All when we come back from this break.